>> Speaker 1: All right, the second
thing that we want to do here is around
preloading resources, and
it's gonna help us with this font problem.
Preloading resources is
around starting your critical
path resources as soon
as you possibly can.
So the critical path,
what resources do you absolutely have
to have in order to render the page.
How do we get those
started as soon as we can?
In our case, we have this problem here,
we have Google Fonts.
Now Google Fonts when
you go to Google Font,
which is the most common way that
people like reference web fonts,
they pick out a thing and says, great,
paste this in your in your document.
And what you paste in is the ability for
you reference to a CSS file,
and that CSS file points at the fonts.
So that CSS file has to come down
before those fonts can be loaded.
So this is what that actually looks like.
This is the little thing that you paste
in from Google Fonts based on their
recommendation.
And, the bottom thing here on line 13
is a link to fonts.googleapis.com/css2,
and that's where we're
actually getting it from.
But it tries to optimize it a little bit,
which these two link
statements on lines 11 and 12.
Link preconnect is instructing
the browser to go ahead and
try and
start up a connection to those APIs or
to those domains before you
know that we need them.
So tries to do the overhead of
like doing a DNS lookup and
setting up a connection and figuring out
what version of protocols it can talk to.
Do all that work to fonts.googlepis.com
and fonts.gstatic.com
because you know you're gonna need it
later so go ahead and get started.
Now that solves part of the problem.
It like starts up connections but
it doesn't actually tell it to go and
get the files.
If we want to actually go and
get the files, we could do that.
So there's another attribute
called link preload.
Now link preload allows you to
basically instruct the browser to fetch
something earlier than it
knows about it otherwise.
If you know you need something if
you know something is important, and
this is gonna be blocking for your path,
you tell the browser to go ahead and
start getting it earlier
with Link preload.
And so in this little example, and
what we're gonna do in a minute,
I took the URLs of the actual font files
and I just threw them into preloads.
Like, go ahead and
get these particular fonts ahead of time.
I know you're gonna need it.
And what that's gonna look
like here when we're done,
is rather than those
series of fonts waiting
until the CSS file is done before
starting, we can start them right away.
Now it could still push things back,
every request is different,
but FCP has the potential
to be quite a bit faster.
So what can we preload?
Well, you can preload lots of stuff.
You can preload styles, you can preload
scripts, you can preload images,
you can preload fonts,
which is what we're doing.
You can even preload a call to fetch.
Before your JavaScript has like even
woken up, you can tell it to say, hey,
start fetching this resource and
I'll dump it into your fetch
later when your stuff wakes up.
Now the limitation here is that for
fonts and
fetch require you to add the crossorigin
attribute to that link, which means
it's gonna need the CORS headers,
the crossorigin resource sharing headers.
You have to be sure that the font or
the API that you're calling,
supports your ability to load
these things from your website.
CORS is not within the scope of what
I'm gonna talk about right here.
But I imagine that you'll have a CORS that
you can reference dynamically in after
effects or in after editing,
that talks all about CORS somewhere
in the Frontend Masters catalog.
All right, so let's take a look.
We're going to add a preload for
some fonts.
All right, so what we're gonna do
here on www is we have these three
requests here for the actual font files
with these long, gibberish names.
So I'm gonna copy all three of these
URLs and we're gonna use them.
Now these Urls clearly are not meant to
be human readable, which is an issue.
There's no guarantee that these files
in their current name is guaranteed to
continue to work.
However, this is gonna just
be an example for us and
I'm gonna show you more permanent
way to do that here in a second.
Rather than doing these simple
preconnects to these APIs,
we're gonna do a link
rel preload as a font.
You have to specify what
you're loading a thing as,
and I'm gonna put this,
rect font file in it,
I'm gonna do the other two and
I put them in my clipboard history.
>> Speaker 1: I think
that's all three of them.
All right, so now we've instructed
the browser to go ahead and
start loading all three of
these as fonts ahead of time.
All right, so I'm adding the crossorigin
attribute to all three of those.
And let's do that again.
Cool, it didn't die that time.
>> Speaker 1: So now if we zoom in,
you'll notice it's actually making
the requests for
those fonts before the CSS files.
It discovers, hey, I need to do this right
away, and it's making those requests.
Now it knows the CSS files need to come
down as well, but it's just limited by
how much the browser can do at one time,
and so when it hits its limit, it waits.
We notice that we're like, queuing and
connecting to these things here.
But what we did is we were able to flatten
this entire structure by making all of
the requests earlier,
rather than waiting for us to discover it.
Now, these fonts or these file
names aren't guaranteed to exist,
this is behind a couple of
levels in Google's API.
And so Google could change
the name of this file tomorrow,
and it would break this pattern.
And so you probably shouldn't do this.
You probably shouldn't actually explicitly
reference these Google generated
font names in your stuff.
Instead, you should probably
just host these locally.
You should take a copy of
the fonts that you need and
you should put them in your own source and
just preload them from there rather than
pointing at Google's version of them.
Your site, especially if you've optimized
for TTFB and put it on a fast CDN,
is probably just as fast as Google Fonts,
arguably a lot faster.
The response time I see from real
users to Google Fonts is quite slow.
I often see Google Fonts as like the long
pole in the third party resources you
depend on.
So pulling those fonts locally,
highly recommend that.